Porous ceramic materials are used in molten metal filters, light weight core for sandwich panels, radiant burners, catalyst supports, sensors and bone grafts [1–3]. Theoretical and experimental characterization of porous materials are not new and several theories have already been postulated to characterize the mechanical strength of polycrystalline porous ceramics [4–8]. Successful models are available for low-density (,0.3) porous materials such as cellular solids [3]. With regards to high-density (.0.3) porous materials, it has been claimed that although there have been several studies to understand the effects of porosity on mechanical strength, no thorough studies on this problem have been conducted to quantify effect of stress concentrations on mechanical behavior of a porous solid [9]. Three sets of arguments have been presented towards this discussion and they are: (a) the variable nature of stress concentrations for isolated pores, (b) the interactive nature of stress concentrations with increasing porosity so that pores were no longer isolated and (c) interaction of pores and cracks. From theory of elasticity point of view, it has been expressed that exact solutions for multiple pore solutions are difficult to obtain [10]. Some solutions exist for calculating stress concentrations and microfracturing patterns for pores in brittle solids and for evaluating cracks and circular holes in 2-D linear elastic media [11,12]. These elasticity solutions along with the above theories do not clearly show how they could be applied to quantitatively model the mechanical strength degradation behavior of porous solids. There are also many equations cited in literature that have been used to curve fit experimental failure results of porous solids. They are mostly based on empirical constants that are related to the volume fraction porosity and applicable only for certain materials processed under specific conditions. Recently, it has been observed that changes in pore geometry parameters results in different failure strengths for same volume fraction porosities