This paper presents a study of structural integrity assessment of the internal features of  additive manufactured (AM) metal parts using X-ray computed tomography (CT). Recent work [1]–[3] has shown the significant progression of CT technology as a tool for assesing AM processes since earlier conferences/workshops [4]. While previous work [5] provided some insight for evaluation of dimensional measurements of AM parts made of plastics, this work focuses on both internal structures and metrology of AM metal parts. The prototype parts analyzed in the present work were manufactured by laser-based powder bed fusion (LPBF) as well as electron-beam melting (EBM). Figure 1 shows both optical and 3D CAD volume images of an AM compressor wheel. This part was manufactured using Al-Si10Mg pre-alloyed powders and the LPBF technique. Specific process parameters include a layer thickness of 30 µm, hatch spacing of about 100-150 µm, average beam velocity of about 2000 mm/s, power of 90-100% of full power (400W) and a preheating temperature of 200°C using typical laser machine processing parameters. The computer-aided design (CAD) model details the internal structures. Although the hollow internal structures shown in Figure 1 are not typically part of conventionally processed versions of this compressor wheel design, the cavity paths (i.e. with diameters of 0.8 mm and 0.5 mm) were deliberately added in the CAD model in order to demonstrate the integration of AM and CT in the present study. The second part, a cooling water manifold, was made using Ti-6Al4V pre-alloyed powders and the EBM technique. In particular, process parameters included sequential build layer thickness of 50 µm and a preheat temperature of around 750°C along with typical EBM machine processing parameters. Figure 2 and Figure 3 show optical and CT images of the EBM-AM Ti-6Al-4V cooling water manifold to illustrate both AM and CT capabilities in this complex design. CT scans were acquired by a metrological CT system, the Nikon’s MCT 225, which has a maximum permissible error (MPE) equal to (9+L/50) μm (where L is length in mm) [6], in accordance with the VDI/VDE 2630 guidelines [7] . The CT data were processed for part-to-CAD evaluation and void analysis by using VGStudio MAX 2.2, a software from Volume Graphics GmbH 